.\"   IF YOU'RE  WONDERING ABOUT THIS FILE, PLS READ:
.\"      http://www.schweikhardt.net/man_page_howto.html
.\"
.\"   Section The human readable name
.\"      -> 1    User commands that may be started by everyone.
.\"      -> 2    System calls, that is, functions provided by the kernel.
.\"      -> 3    Subroutines, that is, library functions.
.\"      -> 4    Devices, that is, special files in the /dev directory.
.\"      -> 5    File format descriptions, e.g. /etc/passwd.
.\"      -> 6    Games, self-explanatory.
.\"      -> 7    Miscellaneous, e.g. macro packages, conventions.
.\"      -> 8    System administration tools that only root can execute.
.\"      -> 9    Another (Linux specific) place for kernel routine documentation.
.\"      -> n    (Deprecated) New documentation, that may be moved to a more
.\"              appropriate section.
.\"      -> o    (Deprecated) Old documentation, that may be kept for a grace
.\"              period.
.\"      -> l    (Deprecated) Local documentation referring to this particular
.\"              system.
.\"
.\"   /**************************************************************************
.\"    * w_scan_cpp is a command, which might be started by everyone. Also, it's
.\"    * not related to X or tk or similar.
.\"    * Therefore, name it 'w_scan_cpp.1' for section 1.
.\"    *************************************************************************/
.\"
.\" The NAME section
.\" ...is the only required section. Man pages without a name section are as
.\" useful as refrigerators at the north pole. This section also has a
.\" standardized format consisting of a comma-separated list of program or
.\" function names, followed by a dash, followed by a short (usually one line)
.\" description of the functionality the program (or function, or file) is
.\" supposed to provide. By means of makewhatis(8), the name sections make it
.\" into the whatis database files. Makewhatis is the reason the name section
.\" must exist, and why it must adhere to the format I described.
.\"
.\"   /**************************************************************************
.\"    * NAME
.\"    *************************************************************************/
.TH "w_scan_cpp" 1 "16 May 2021" "" ""
.SH NAME w_scan_cpp \- an universal DTV scanner and successor of w_scan.
.\"
.\" The \- is of importance here. The backslash is needed to make the dash
.\" distinct from a hyphenation dash that may appear in either the command name
.\" or the one line description.
.\"
.\"   /**************************************************************************
.\"    * SYNOPSIS
.\"    *************************************************************************/
.\" ...is intended to give a short overview on available program options. For
.\" functions this sections lists corresponding include files and the prototype
.\" so the programmer knows the type and number of arguments as well as the
.\" return type.
.\" 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B w_scan_cpp -fa
.I -c \<COUNTRY_ID\> 
.B [ options ] 
.br
.B w_scan_cpp -fc
.I -c \<COUNTRY_ID\> 
.B [ options ] 
.br
.B w_scan_cpp -ft
.I -c \<COUNTRY_ID\> 
.B [ options ] 
.br
.B w_scan_cpp -fs
.I -s \<SATELLITE_ID\> 
.B [ options ]
.\"
.\"   /**************************************************************************
.\"    * DESCRIPTION
.\"    *************************************************************************/
.\" ...eloquently explains why your sequence of 0s and 1s is worth anything at
.\" all. Here is where you write down all your knowledge. This is the
.\" Hall Of Fame. Win other programmers' and users' admiration by making this
.\" section the source of reliable and detailed information. Explain what the
.\" arguments are for, the file format, what algorithms do the dirty jobs.
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B w_scan_cpp
.\"                                                             |
scans for DVB\-C, DVB\-S/S2, DVB\-T/T2 and ATSC channels,
.br
or, let's call it digital TV and Radio services.
.br
During a scan, this utility writes commands to your DTV hardware
.br
and reads data from it.
.br
Therefore, any other program accessing the DVB hardware
.br
with write access (like e.g. VDR, tvheadend, minisatip,..) has to
.br
be closed in order to avoid conflicts while running w_scan_cpp.
.br
Also, enshure that you start this tool with proper write
.br
permissions to your hardware, i.e using sudo.
.br
After a successful scan, w_scan_cpp provides the channels in
.br
different output formats.
.br
By default, the data is written as VDR channels.conf. If you
.br
prefer another output format, see OPTIONS section.
.\"
.\"   /**************************************************************************
.\"    * OPTIONS
.\"    *************************************************************************/
.\" ...gives a description of how each option affects program
.\" behaviour. You knew that, did you not? 
.\"
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are available.
.TP 
.B \-f TYPE, --frontend TYPE
Frontend type, What programs do you want to search for?
.br
"a" = atsc (vsb/qam; North-America)
.br
"c" = DVB-C (digital cable)
.br
"s" = DVB-S/S2 (digital satellite)
.br
"t" = DVB-T/T2 (digital terrestrial)[default]
.br
.B IMPORTANT:
Depending on "TYPE",
.br
either of the arguments "-s" or "-c" is mandatory.
.TP
.B \-A N, --atsc_type N
specify ATSC type (North-America only)
.br
"1" = Terrestrial ('VSB') [default]
.br
"2" = Cable (sometimes called wrong 'QAM' or 'clear-QAM')
.br
"3" = both, Terrestrial and Cable
.br
.TP
.B -t, --satip
use a SAT>IP (network connected) tuner via VDR Satip Plugin,
.br
instead of a local installed tuner.
.br
see https://www.satip.info
.TP 
.B \-c \<COUNTRY_ID\>, --country \<COUNTRY_ID\>
Mandatory argument for ATSC, cable and terrestrian scans,
.br
see option -f.
.br
Specifies the country where you try to scan for channels.
.br
Argument is an uppercase two letter identifier, e.g.
.br
DE = Germany,
.br
FR = France
.br
GB = Great Britain
.br
US = United States,
.br
Use "-c?" for a list of all known identifiers.
.TP
.B \-s \<SATELLITE_ID\>, --satellite \<SATELLITE_ID\>
choose your satellite here:
.br
S19E2, S13E0, S15W0, ..
.br
? for list
.TP
.B -I, --output-ini
generate transponder ini instead of VDR channels.conf
.TP
.B -L, --output-VLC
generate VLC xspf playlist instead of VDR channels.conf
.TP
.B -V, --output-VLC-satip
generate VLC xspf playlist for SAT>IP instead of VDR channels.conf
.TP
.B -M, --output-mplayer
generate mplayer output instead of VDR channels.conf
.TP
.B -X, --output-xine
generate tzap/czap/xine output instead of VDR channels.conf
.TP
.B -x, --output-initial
generate dtv scan table for dvbv5-scan instead of VDR
.br
channels.conf
.TP
.B -Z, --output-xml
generate w_scan XML tuning data instead of VDR channels.conf
.TP
.B -Y <FILENAME>, --output-dat <FILENAME>
generate channels.dat for SAT>IP DvbViewer Lite
.TP
.B -F <VDR-CHANNEL>, --femon <VDR-CHANNEL>
tune to a channel in VDR syntax and report signal status.
.br
For details about VDR channel syntax, see
.BR vdr (5)
.TP
.B -H, --extended-help
view extended help (experts only)
.SH "EXPERT OPTIONS"
.SH "*** General ***"
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
be more verbose (repeat for more)
.TP
.B -q, --quiet
be more quiet   (repeat for less)
.SH "*** Services ***"
.TP
.B -C FILE, --sort-criteria FILE
sort services in sequence, as given by FILE.
.br
FILE is a text file, each line gives the name of a service,
.br
optionally followed by a delimiter (',' or ';' or ':') and a comment.
.br
If 'name' is 7bit ASCII only, the comparison is case-insensitive.
.br
Otherwise, for non-7bit ASCII, the case behaviour depends on your system.
.br
w_scan_cpp tries to output services in the same sequence as your file -
.br
but only for those channels which are really found.
.br
If several services match the name, they are grouped together.
.br
Services not matching any sort-criteria appear after the sorted lines.
.br
NOTE: 'FILE' should be in the same encoding as used during scan, ie utf8.
.br
Example:
.TS
l.
\fBDas Erste HD;ARD:\fR
\fBZDF HD\fR
\fB:*** private channels ***\fR
\fBSAT.1 HD;ProSiebenSat.1\fR
\fBRTL HD:should be channel number 4.\fR
.TE
.TP
.B -R N, --radio-services N
0 = don't search radio channels
.br
1 = search radio channels [default]
.TP
.B -T N, --tv-services N
0 = don't search TV channels
.br
1 = search TV channels[default]
.TP
.B -E N, --encrypted-services (Conditional Access)
N=0 gets only Free TV channels
.br
N=1 search also encrypted channels [default]
.SH "*** Device ***"
.TP
.B -a N, --adapter N
use device /dev/dvb/adapterN/ [default: auto detect]
.br
(also allowed: -a /dev/dvb/adapterN/frontendM)
.TP
.B --signal-wait-time N
This settings allows to tune the wait time before the presence of
.br
antenna signal is checked after a channel change. The higher the
.br
value, the longer the wait time will be. If no signal is detected,
.br
the next channel is choosen. Otherwise, the algorithm starts waiting
.br
until getting either a lock (successful reception) or a lock
.br
timeout, see setting below. Please note, that increasing this value
.br
to values other than the default will increase the time for a full
.br
channel scan. time unit is seconds.
.br
Valid range is 1..5 [default: 1].
.br
.TP
.B --lock-timeout N
This settings allows to tune the timeout for lock detection after a
.br
antenna signal was detected on a channel. The higher the value, the
.br
longer the wait time will be before a channel will be discarded as
.br
not working. Increasing this value will slow down scans on weak or
.br
disturbed signal conditions. time unit is seconds.
.br
Valid range is 1 to 10. [default: 3].
.br
.TP
.B --satip-server <STRING>
do not auto detect the satip server, but use manual
.br
server settings, ie.
.br
192.168.2.66 (the servers IP)
.br
192.168.2.66|DVBC-1 (the server has one DVB-C frontend)
.br
192.168.2.66|DVBS2-2,DVBT2-2|OctopusNet (two different fe types and quirks for OctopusNet)
.br
192.168.2.66|DVBS2-2|minisatip:0x08 (RTP over TCP)
.br
NOTE: as this option is just forwarded to the vdr-plugin-satip,
.br
please refer to it's README for further details.
.br
NOTE: Server quirk 0x08 enables RTP over TCP use.
.TP
.B --satip-src N
selects the satellite orbital position for SAT>IP by index N (1 .. 255).
.br
The number of supported positions depends on the SAT>IP server.
.br
For the actual value of N, refer to the setup page of your SAT>IP server.
.br
The default value is 1.
.SH "*** DVB-C ***"
.TP
.B -i N, --inversion N
spectral inversion setting for cable TV
.br
(0: off, 1: on, 2: auto [default])
.TP
.B -Q N, --dvbc-modulation N
set DVB-C modulation, see table:
0  = QAM64
.br
1  = QAM256
.br
2  = QAM128
.br
3  = all (SLOW!)
.br
NOTE: for experienced users only!!
.TP
.B -e N,--dvbc-extflags N
extended scan flags (DVB-C only),
.br
Any combination of these flags:
.br
1 = use extended symbolrate list
.br
enables scan of symbolrates
.br
   6900, 6875, 6111, 6250, 6790,
.br
   6811, 5900, 5000, 3450, 4000,
.br
   6950, 7000, 6952, 5156, 5483
.br
2 = extended QAM scan (enable QAM128)
.br
recommended for Nethterlands and Finland
.br
NOTE: extended scan will be *slow*
.TP
.B -S N, dvbc-symbolrate N
set DVB-C symbol rate, see table:
.br
        0  = 6900 kSymbol/s
.br
        1  = 6875 kSymbol/s
.br
        4  = 6952 kSymbol/s
.br
        5  = 6950 kSymbol/s
.br
        6  = 6790 kSymbol/s
.br
        7  = 6811 kSymbol/s
.br
        8  = 6250 kSymbol/s
.br
        9  = 6111 kSymbol/s
.br
        11 = 5900 kSymbol/s
.br
        12 = 5483 kSymbol/s
.br
        14 = 5156 kSymbol/s
.br
        15 = 5000 kSymbol/s
.br
        16 = 4000 kSymbol/s
.br
        17 = 3450 kSymbol/s
.br
NOTE: for experienced users only!!
.SH "*** DVB-S/S2 ***"
.TP
.B -l <LNB type>, --lnb-type <LNB type>
choose LNB type by name (DVB-S/S2 only)
.br
? for list
.TP
.B -D Nc, --diseqc-switch Nc
.br
use DiSEqC committed switch position N
.br
AA..BB => 0..3
.TP
.B -D Nu, --diseqc-switch Nu
.br
use DiSEqC uncommitted switch position N
.br
N = 0..15
.TP
.B -r N, --rotor-position N
use Rotor position N (needs -s)
.TP
.B -U PARAMLIST, --rotor-usals PARAMLIST
.br
where PARAMLIST is Lat:Long:Speed:Swing
.br
   Lat  : your site latitude  in tenth of degree, negative south, positive north
.br
   Long : your site longitude in tenth of degree, negative west , positive east
.br
   Speed: your rotor speed in tenth of degree per second
.br
   Swing: your rotor max swing in tenth of degree
.br
example: a rotor located in Berlin/Germany (52.52,13.41),
.br
            moving at 1.5deg/sec, max swing 65deg gives
.br
            --rotor-usals 525:134:15:650
.TP
.B -u    <slot:user_frequency:sat_pos(:user_pin)>
see --scr
.TP
.B --scr <slot:user_frequency:sat_pos(:user_pin)>
Satellite Channel Routing
  a) use EN50494:
     slot          :  slot number for user frequency, 0..7
     user_frequency:  receiver user frequency for slot in MHz, i.e. 1400
     sat_pos       :  satellite position (upper case), 'A' or 'B'
     user_pin      :  optional user pin, normally not used (0..255)
  i.e. -u 0:1400:A for EN50494, slot 0 at 1400 MHz, Satellite Pos 'A'
  
  b) use advanced SCR EN50607/JESS:
     slot          :  slot number for user frequency, 0..31
     user_frequency:  receiver user frequency for slot in MHz, i.e. 1400
     sat_pos       :  satellite position (lower case), 'a' .. 'p'
     user_pin      :  optional user pin, normally not used (0..255)
  i.e. -u 0:1400:a for EN50607 slot 0 at 1400 MHz, Satellite Pos 'a'
                         sat| committed switch  | uncommitted switch
                         pos| option | position | option | position
                          'a'    0   |   0      |   0    |   0
                          'b'    0   |   1      |   0    |   0
                          'c'    1   |   0      |   0    |   0
                          'd'    1   |   1      |   0    |   0
                          'e'    0   |   0      |   0    |   1
                          'f'    0   |   1      |   0    |   1
                          'g'    1   |   0      |   0    |   1
                          'h'    1   |   1      |   0    |   1
                          'i'    0   |   0      |   1    |   0
                          'j'    0   |   1      |   1    |   0
                          'k'    1   |   0      |   1    |   0
                          'l'    1   |   1      |   1    |   0
                          'm'    0   |   0      |   1    |   1
                          'n'    0   |   1      |   1    |   1
                          'o'    1   |   0      |   1    |   1
                          'p'    1   |   1      |   1    |   1
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
see README file from source code package.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by W.Koehler
.PP 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
.br
document under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
.br
Version 2 any later version published by the Free Software
.br
Foundation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
vdr (1)
.br
w_scan (1)
